iterating-over-data: ports from old core repo (#43)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: iterating-over-data/iterating-over-lists.md

| `my_list`            | **Replace this** part with the desired list to iterate over. This can be a variable that holds a list, a list literal, or any expression that becomes a list                           |
| `:`                  | This colon begins the `for` loop's body                                                                                                                                                |
| ` print(my_element)` | **Replace this** with any code that should execute during each loop. This is the loop's body.                                                                                          |

### About `my_element`

The variable `my_element` gets assigned and re-assigned through a `for` loop.

When a `for` loop starts, `my_element` gets assigned the value of the first element in the list. Then value of `my_element` changes with each following iteration.

1. In the first iteration, the value of `my_element` will be the first element in the list.
2. In the second iteration, the value of `my_element` will be the second element in the list.
3. In the third, it will be the third element...
4. ... etc., until there are no more elements in the list.

> We should always change `my_element` to be a variable name appropriate to the context of the list. What does each element in the list represent?

Author: Taking your suggestion and shortening it

```suggestion
We should always change `my_element` to be a variable name appropriate to the context of the list. Think about what each element in the list represents. If we are iterating over a list of books, we might change `my_element` to `book`. For a list of rooms, the name `room` might be more appropriate.

The name we choose doesn't affect the underlying iteration value in any way, but it can help us remember what data we're processing in the loop body.
```

**Another Example:**

```python
prices = [18.99, 56.00, 48.50, 18.50]

for price in prices:
    taxed_price = price * 1.101
    print(f"The cost of one item is {taxed_price}")

print("That sure was a meal!")
```

| iteration # | index of `price` | value of `price` | value of `taxed_price` at the end of the loop |
| ----------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 1           | 0                | `18.99`          | `20.907989999999998`                          |
| 2           | 1                | `56.00`          | `61.656`                                      |
| 3           | 2                | `48.50`          | `53.3985`                                     |
| 4           | 3                | `18.50`          | `20.3685`                                     |

## Variable Scope

Inside `for` loops, we can access and use any variables that are within scope.

A common pattern we'll use is to initialize a variable before a `for` loop, and modify it within a `for` loop.

> Read through this code, and answer these questions:

Author: Perfect!

Is `taxed_prices`

- ... initialized as an empty array inside the `for` loop?
- ... accessed or modified inside the `for` loop? How?
- ... accessed or modified after the `for` loop? How?

```python
prices = [18.99, 56.00, 48.50, 18.50]
taxed_prices = []

for price in prices:
    taxed_price = price * 1.101

>     taxed_prices.append(taxed_price)

Reviewer: Yes! Please let's do this!

>     taxed_prices.append(taxed_price)

Reviewer: I guess I could also see us having the opinion that we want to start by teaching them one way to do things and letting them learn about more optimal ways of doing things later on...?
